Hello and welcome to the homework
exercise on the world trends. I hope you
enjoyed the section of the course on
data frames and today we have a great
opportunity to practice all of those
skills that we learned and really let that
knowledge sink in. So let's jump right
into this challenge, the challenge is the
world bank was very impressed with your
deliverables on the previous assignment
and they have a new project for you. As
it often is in data science. You are
required to produce a scatterplot
depicting a life expectancy on the
y-axis and fertility rate on the x-axis
statistics by country. The scatterplot
needs to also be categorized by
countries/regions next page, there's more
ok that's what's more here. You have been
supplied with data for two years, 1960
and 2013 and you're required to produce
a visualization for each of these years.
Some data has been provided in a CSV
files, some in R vectors. The CSV
file contains combined data for both
years, all data manipulations have to
be performed in R, not in Excel because
this project may be audited at a later
stage. You have also been requested to
provide insight into how the two periods
compare very very interesting. So this
time it's different so very similar to
what we've done but different. Different
how?
Well first of all now we have two years
right? Instead of just the one year we
have two years so we'll have we'll have two
visualizations and then also some
data has been provided in CSV, some in R
vectors. We know that but the CSV file
contains combined data for both year. So
both 1960 and 2013 are in one file, that's
going to add a bit of complication to
our work and all data manipulations have
to be formed performed in R. So you can
just go and fix up your data in
Excel and then important to R and the
reason why they saying that is because
this project maybe order to add a later
stage so basically your supply order and
this is often the case in data science
especially if you're in consulting but
if you're even if you're not into
consulting, so when I went into the
industry and I was setting up a data
science team for a large financial
corporation still we always took
care about these audit trails because
all the things you do in Excel, you do
them and then nobody knows exactly what
you did but if you ride up code in R
or other programming language, then you
can always traceback exactly what
happened and how you got from point A to
point B. So that's why they want
everything from not and finally you're
required to provide insights to compare
the two years. That's going to be
interesting as well,
Alright so there's the challenge let's
have a look at where to get the data set.
If you go to superdatascience.com/rcourse
and you scroll down
to the section 5, data frames and
it's growing very quickly. Here you can
see homework challenge that's a PDF file
and then this is what you're going to
need homework data set and homework vector.
So those are two files you need, if
you're comfortable at attacking this
challenge right away
give it a go see how see how you can
solve this problem and but now what I
want to do is I want to give you two
hints, as always. I want to give you to
hints.
So let's go back to the presentation,
firsthand are you ready? For this number
one,
alright this is relating to the CSV file,
after you import the csv file into R,
the first step is to split the data
frame into two. So you've got a data
frame of two sets of data in it. While
the first idea, the best approach would
be to split the data into two data frames.
In order to achieve this, use data frame
filtering we discussed in this section
so remember where you have like square
brackets and then you say so let's say
our data is data in the data frame
called let's say DF for instance, when you
say DF square brackets DF dollar sign,
the column you want to filter on is
greater or less than or equal to double
equal sign then you put your condition
and then you put on the comma and then
nothing right? So that's the approach
that you will probably you will need to
use in order to filter out or split your
data into two diagrams. And then from
there it's pretty simple, it's from there you
just do exactly what we did in this
section so that way you get to practice
both data filtering and visualization and
all the other techniques, most of them
that we learn in this section.
So there you go that's hint number one,
and probably now you should be quite
confident as the steps so I find the
best way to attack a challenge is to
break it down into steps and understand
how you're going to approach it. So
there's your first step and from there
you probably already remember the steps
that were taken before so give it a go
and try and tempt this challenge and
then come back and look at the solution
will compare there otherwise, if you want
hint number two, then I'm happy to give
it to you, hint number two is of course
the fill in the blanks exercise. So let's
go and check it out,
you can download it here fill in the
blanks exercise , it's an R file. Well it's
a zip file which is an R file, has R
our file inside. So here I've got the
fill in the blanks exercise which I've
prepared for you and all you have to do
is find everywhere where you see this
underscore. Well actually if you highlight
like that, you'll see it it's highlighted
already for us that's great. You just have
to replace it with some codes so here we
set the work and I have put a lot
of comments to explain the steps that
we're taking. You import the data, you
explore the data like with dance
I've explained exactly what we're
looking for here and so on. So go ahead
and download this file and that way you
already kind of have the step-by-step
approach in the file prepared for you
all you have to do is remember the bits
and pieces of code that we've talked
about maybe you know take a sneak peek
into the tutorials that we've had and
just populate that code instead of these
underscores including these other
scores over here.
That way, you'll get to practice
everything we learn today. Alright so
that's it
and after you're done, have a look at the
solution I will post it at the very end
of the course in a separate section with
solutions and I wish you best of luck
with this challenge.
I look forward to seeing you next time, until then happy
coding.